[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>ALAN W. GREEN:
In this episode,
we explore the amazing fact
that Dee and de Vere, sometimes
known as Oxford, were planning
this entire coded mystery
for a full 30 years.
Shakespeare wrote poems,
sonnets, and plays.
We're going to look
at them grouped
from the very first time
the name William Shakespeare
appeared in print in
1593, through to the 1609
publication of his Sonnets,
to the final collection of 36
of his plays in the
"First Folio" in 1623.
But what has never
been proven until now
is that the great author also
played a significant role
in the translation of the King
James Bible published in 1611.
But then why would
the king not call
on the greatest
writer of the time
right there in his own backyard?
It ultimately became
the bestselling book
of all time, billions
of copies in print.
And a large part
of its success is
that it has one cohesive,
poetic voice throughout.
Hardly the result
one would expect
from a committee of 54
non-writer clerics cobbling it
together, which is
the official story.
You're going to see that
the Shakespeare Rosie Cross
Fraternity embedded
the same coded messages
over and over again into
all of these publications,
expressly to reveal a
royal secret so dangerous
at the time, it simply
had to be encrypted.
Remember, nothing
that is so is so.
It seems obvious now
given the hindsight
of 18 years' meticulous
and obsessive study.
But in fact, not
until recently did
I realize the linear periods
of research I've been doing
had fallen into neat categories
of two central periods
of six years bookended by
two years and four years.
I'm just saying.
I'm now so in the habit of
seeing patterns everywhere
that you could say--
and many have--
that I'm a living
example of self-fulfilling
confirmation bias.
It's an interesting field
of inquiry that, isn't it?
Most people who don't
believe in positive thinking
don't experience it,
which is probably
why they don't believe in it.
Look, I know there is
such a thing as apophenia.
What psychologists define
as the human tendency
to see connections and patterns
that are not really there.
But look at that definition.
In itself, a form of
confirmation bias,
not really there.
End of conversation.
I've heard many, many people
have had at least one,
probably more likely
several experiences
where you know something
is about to happen,
or has already, but
we usually deny it
because the stigma attached
to even bringing it
up with friends and family, mm.
It's worth repeating, patterns
that are not really there.
The definition itself is biased
against any other version
of truth but theirs.
If we allow someone to have
the authority over our own mind
to tell us that what we
see is not in fact real.
And that's happening
today, isn't it?
Well then, of course, no
wonder the multibillion-dollar
pharmaceutical companies
are doing just fine.
Believe me, I would not have
spent 18-plus years on this
if the patterns were
not real and didn't
adhere to a replicatable
system that's
easy to follow once you see it.
Quite simply,
they're always to be
found in three places within
each of these publications.
The very first page,
the very last page,
and the very center
of the structure.
Consequently, I've named this
hypothesis the Alpha Omega
System.
And as you will see, it was
being followed consistently
by Dee and Shakespeare
across a span of 30 years.
Clearly, the authors knew
such redundancy would increase
the probability of their
messages being found,
but would also be necessary in
order for future generations
to accept their validity because
of their innate confirmation
bias against confirmation.
See, one or two random
codes can easily
be dismissed by a
skeptical public.
And I only have time,
unfortunately, here
to show you a handful of them.
But believe me, there are
well over 150 of these, each
repeating the same message
and the same locations
where their claims
can be proven.
Now that's a
self-confirmatory system.
Because the probability
of intentionality
is essentially 100%
mathematically.
Let's go to the altar.
For a quick recap of what we've
already seen in the Sonnets,
the first page
hides the geometry
that reveals precise knowledge
of then unknown math constants.
The mathematical relationship
between the world's three
major measurement systems and
incredibly accurate coordinates
of the Great Pyramid.
The last page of the very last
Sonnet reveals altar stone
finally solved, "ww
10, 01 e. vere."
The very last lines of
"A Lover's Complaint"
reveals "In Fine",
meaning in the end, "print
conceals I AM Edward de Vere."
Notice even the
letters "I AM", all
caps in the lines
themselves because they're
the abbreviation of the
most common translation
of the name of God.
I AM that I AM.
So let's look again at Sonnet
121, where Shakespeare writes
this astounding statement.
"Noe, I am that I am, and
they the level at my abuses
reckon up their own."
Uttering the name of
God was unthinkable.
Because in 1606, King
James issued a new law
banning the printing or
speaking of any names of God.
This was not only blasphemous
because the poet is using it
in the first person, but
it was treasonous too
because the law that forbade
the use of the name of God
was called the Act of Abuses,
and Shakespeare is blatantly
flaunting that royal
decree by saying,
"They that level of my
abuses, reckon up their own."
This is utterly outrageous.
And the clear proof that the
author cannot possibly have
been the Stratford grain
dealer, there's simply no way
a commoner could have got away
with threatening the King?
Shakespeare would
have been hung, drawn,
and quartered the day after
the Sonnets were published.
It also has huge
significance because it
means Oxford had to
be still alive in 1606
to know the name of that law.
This is clear proof his
supposed death in 1604
was fixed, as the codes
have repeatedly stated.
However, in order for
this forbidden divine name
to be complete, it
must, by definition,
include its past, present,
and future tense versions.
We already found "I
will be what I will be"
in the center of the folio.
Let's now check out the
center of the Sonnets book.
Indeed we find it hidden
in the catchwords again.
We have "I Was" and "I
Was", the past tense version
of the name of God.
But Oxford goes one
better and adds "not."
Giving us "I was and I was not."
Thus including
all existence, all
non-existence, everything that's
possible to be and not to be.
It's the ultimate name of God.
And just to add
to the perfection,
the center of the
Sonnets is divided
into 40 pages on the left, 40
pages on the right, de Vere's
code number.
Now, let's look at the
center of the "First Folio."
Recapping again, we already saw
the center words of the center
pages of the folio, 100 and
101, give us the catchword code,
"I will be what I will be."
So there you have it.
He's done all three.
"I was," "I am," "I will be."
But even in these
six little letters,
he still managed to place a
code in the center, beginning,
and end.
"OR," "EO," "RE," which is the
reverse of "ER," of course.
Still the same message
over and over again.
Am I to be just
Edward Oxenford--
EO-- or Edward Rex--
ER.
And remember, the center
is page 100 and page 101.
Now, let's look at the
first and last pages
of the "First Folio."
The beginning and end.
The folio is the
first page traces
to a cartoonish
engraving of the supposed
author with far too
many deliberate mistakes
to mention here.
We're just going to
look at one for now.
But first, let's turn
to the last page,
which has an enormous seeming
mistake that academics think
really is a printing error.
The final numbering
goes from 398 to 993.
Obviously, it should be 399.
But as you saw already,
Malvolio in "Twelfth Night"
reveals that all the
codes work both ways,
forwards and backwards.
Revolved, be opposite.
And this is indeed a
mirror image of itself.
Going back to the engraving now.
Note, his jacket is half of
a front and half of a back.
But those are thinly veiled
letters, aren't they?
"I" and "C."
And then the ribbon down
the center is another "I."
In a simple alphabet
code called gematria,
I is the ninth letter of the
alphabet, C is the third.
So oh, 993.
Perfect balance,
beginning and end.
But there's more.
The jump from the expected
399 to 993 is plus 594.
Now, hold that thought.
We're going to come
back to that, 594.
Remember, this is the last page
of the last play in his last
ever publication, the folio.
So let's go back to his first
ever publication 30 years
prior, Venus and Adonis, 1593.
The first time the world saw
the name William Shakespeare.
This is one stanza of
the poem, and each stanza
consists of six lines.
Here's the entire
structure: 594 lines
to the left of center, 594
lines to the right of center.
And the very center stanza
itself is number 100.
So far, we've counted
lines and numbers.
How do we keep track
of biblical passages?
Chapter and verse, isn't it?
Line and number.
He must be wanting us to count
chapters and verses as well.
Back to the Sonnets a moment.
We've already seen Dee and
de Vere place key words
into certain sonnet
numbers to reveal
very important math,
like, for instance,
encoding the speed of light.
That was kind of important.
On the left, the numbers
of the sonnets that
contain the word
you're searching
on, multiply by the Shakespeare
equation, 123 times pi over 6,
and the solution
will be on the right.
So let's check where he uses
the word verse or verses.
This is Sonnet number 17.
So count 17, then 19.
I won't show them all,
they'll be listed here.
After number 81, he
starts doing doubles.
So 86 is doubled,
103 is doubled, 109,
he gives a huge clue by
making universe capitalized
with "all thy sum"
right above it,
a hint to include Sonnet 126,
which has two parentheses that
serve to represent missing
lines, missing verses,
missing stanzas in
various other codes.
But above all, it signifies a
joining together of two halves
in the pyramid
structure, and that's
exactly what it does here.
Add up the first half, 594.
Add up the second half, 594.
Well, this is obviously
deliberate and significant.
And I promised you proof of
Shakespeare's involvement
in the King James Bible,
so let's have a look at it.
This is about as simple
and elegant as it gets.
Here's the first page
of the King James Bible.
Here's the last.
And this is the
very center chapter
in the entire Old and
New Testament structure.
It's also the shortest chapter
in the Bible, just two verses,
matching the two verse lines
that are missing in Sonnet 126,
which we just saw divides two
sections through the middle.
But here's the kicker.
It sits precisely in the
middle of the whole Bible
with 594 chapters on the left
and 594 chapters on the right.
Shakespeare is very
deliberately drawing parallels
between all his major works
and the King James Bible,
which wasn't
published until 1611,
two years after the Sonnets,
long after Venus and Adonis,
but also long before
the "First Folio."
Going now to the center
of the King James Bible.
Psalm 117 had been changed to
Psalm 116 in the Latin Vulgate
translation, which was decreed
at the Council of Trent
to be the official Bible text
of the Roman Catholic Church.
As such, the mathematical
perfection of the real Psalm
117, being both the center
chapter of the Bible,
as well as the shortest
chapter, was completely ruined.
Along with the proper balance
of 594 chapters on either side.
Similarly, Psalm 119
on the very next page,
which happens to be the
longest chapter of the Bible,
became Psalm 118.
So along come Dee and de
Vere with a righteous mandate
to restore the
mathoetical perfection,
and they change all
the Psalm numbering
back to match the
original Hebrew text.
Perfection restored.
So now consider the
subtle nudge nudge,
wink wink to the similarly
brilliant subterfuge going on
in the Sonnets, where
the only incorrectly
numbered sonnet is this
one, printed as Sonnet 119.
But really, it's Sonnet 116.
As we saw previously,
the last two lines
tell us this is not an error.
It's a clue.
Because day 116 in the Sonnet's
Calendar is April 26, 4-26.
But it's fixed to be the mirror
image code of June 24, 6-24.
What they're subtly
saying here is
Psalm or Sonnet 116, the
shortest story on record,
is Shakespeare.
And it's been changed to Sonnet
or Psalm 119, the longest story
imaginable, that of
de Vere and others
within the Rosicrucian
fraternity.
But as always, for this
pattern to be truly consistent
and follow the meticulous
attention to detail,
that is the Dee-de
Vere trademark,
it ought to have a mirror image.
So we must return to the
folio where we found it
in the last wrong page number.
A jump forward of plus 594 gave
us the 993 mirror image of 399.
But to prove this
mirror thesis, we
must go backwards
594 pages from here.
And we see at the
bottom of that page
a curious song in
"The Winter's Tale"
with three telltale
signs that it's a code.
The T in exit has been dropped
about half a line space.
The song starts, "Will you buy
any Tape or lace for your Cape?
Well, that's not
an A. It's an R.
The song ends at another
letter that should be an A.
But it's a mirror image
view of a capital R.
This would have to have been
a purposely created character
for the Gutenberg Press.
A lot of work for just
one letter to look wrong.
We obviously must
put it into a grid.
As you can see, I've
been true to the changes.
R here, R here revolved,
and the deliberately
dropped T is drawing attention
to a triple tau at the corner.
Right away we see
the obvious intention
is to line up 20 by 10 and
have two perfect centers.
Just as the grid for
"I will find my truth
is hid" had two centers
dependent on each other.
Each section spells
out a location.
WSW T Isle, the west
southwest cross aisle.
We saw how Shakespeare's
grave, monument, and altar
form a perfect geometric
construction pointing
to Richard Hill's altar tomb
in the south cross aisle.
But if we check the
actual compass orientation
of the church, we
see the location
of Hill's tomb from the altar
is closer to west southwest.
Back to the grid.
What do we see placed
precisely under the center
codes in a horizontal
cross formation?
The altar.
And now we see the brilliance
in him turning this A
into an R. Encrypted by Dee.
Of course.
In fact, as a pure
anagram, it reads
"Dee encrypt", which is exactly
what this is challenging
us to do, decrypt the
triple tau altar that's
hidden under the west
southwest cross aisle.
And now we see why they
went to all that trouble
to make a special character
for that revolve R. "I ER Rex."
But not really because
the R is turned around.
He's drawing attention
to the ultimate question
of his relationship with
the Queen politically,
whether Edward de Vere was to
be or not to be, E Rex the King.
His ER has been turned around.
Obviously, the answer is no.
He's not to be E Rex the King.
And of course, history
bears that out.
And in case you still
have lingering doubts,
wrapped completely around
the altar is the name Edward.
This is why the T is lowered.
He's finally become
the fourth T,
the inverted tau
cross sacrificed.
Just like Saint Peter, unworthy.
In the next episode,
we're going to be looking
at the very last
sentence of the very
last play in the folio,
which, as we've just seen,
has the last wrong
page number in it.
Where is all this leading?
To the biggest secret in the
whole Shakespeare mystery.
[MUSIC PLAYING]